README.md, before:

CXine - A mostly mplayer compatible libxine media player
--------------------------------------------------------

CXine is a basic, keyboard-driven, X11, lib-xine based media player that is intended to be used as a keyboard-driven standalone app, or embedded in a frontend. It supports a subset of the mplayer 'slave mode' command protocol. It supports user-configurable on screen displays; embedding into another window; sticky, shaded and stayontop windows; drawing on the root window; fullscreen playback, keygrabs and 'bookmarking' (remembering position in a media item). Its only dependancies are libxine, libX11, libc and libm.

At current CXine is completely keyboard-driven, with no mouse control at all. This may change in future.

Author
------
cxine is (C) 2018 Colum Paget. It is released under the GPLv3 so you may do anything with them that the GPL allows.

Email: colums.projects@gmail.com


Usage
-----
```
	cxine [options] [url]
```

Options
-------

```
  -add <url>             Add <url> to the playlist of an existing cxine, then exit.
  -queue <url>           If no cxine is currently running, then start up and play <url>, else add it to the playlist of an existing cxine.
  -esc                   Allow the 'escape' key to exit the app.
  -win     <win id>      'root', 'fullscreen', 'sticky', 'shaded', 'ontop', 'stickontop' or id of window to reparent into.
  -into    <win id>      Window to reparent into (xterm style option).
  -wid     <win id>      Window to reparent into (mplayer style option).
  -parent  <win id>      Window to reparent into (maximum clarity style).
  -s <wid>x<high>        Window size. Default is 480x360.
  -ao <ao name>          Audio output plugin name (default = alsa).
  -vo <vo name>          Video output plugin name (default = Xv).
  -identify              Output machine-readable track information on stdout (mplayer feature).
  -root                  Draw on root window (equivalent to -win root).
  -rootwin               Draw on root window (mplayer style option).
  -fs                    Play fullscreen (mplayer style option equivalent to '-win fullscreen').
  -use-stdin             Read media stream from stdin
  -pause                 Start paused.
  -mute                  Start muted.
  -shuffle               Shuffle playlist.
  -loop <n>              Repeat playback <n> times.
  -stop_xscreensaver     Disable screensaver during playing, re-enable it on exit.
  -persist               Don't exit when nothing left to do, wait for commands on stdin.
  -slave                 Mplayer compatible flag, equivalent to '-persist -startms 0'.
  -input <path>          Path to pipe to read commands from (by default cxine creates a pipe in '~/.cxine/cxine.pipe'). This accepts mplayer compatible form '-input file:<path>'.
  -nowplay <path>        Path to pipe to write 'now playing' info to (cxine will create this pipe if it doesn't already exist).
  -startms <millisecs>   Start playing at <millisecs>'.
  -image-time <ms>       Number of milliseconds to pause on an image for, until starting to play/display the next track.
  -imagems <ms>          Number of milliseconds to pause on an image for, until starting to play/display the next track.
  -osd-show              Show On Screen Display.
  -osd-hide              Hide On Screen Display'.
  -osd <format>          Define format of OSD bar.
  -slow                  Play halfspeed.
  -vslow                 Play quarterspeed.
  -loud                  Play with raised volume.
  -vloud                 Play with maximum volume.
  -keygrab               Register keygrabs, a comma-separated list of keys. See keygrabs below.
  -prio <value>          Set process priority in range 0-39 (requires superuser capabilities).
  -nice <value>          Set process priority with 'nice' semantics (requires superuser capabilities).
  -ac <value>            Set audio compression. This boosts quiet sounds, lessening the volume range. value is a percent > 100 to multiply quiet sounds by.
  -ap <plugins>          Comma separated list of audio post processing plugins.
  -aplug <plugins>       Comma separated list of audio post processing plugins.
  -?                     Show this help.
  -help                  Show this help.
  --help                 Show this help.
  --help keys            Show keybindings.
  --help keygrabs        Show help for keygrab config.
  --help osd             Show help for OSD config.
  --help slave           Show help for MPlayer-compatible slave mode.
```


Window Types
------------

The `-win` command supports a number of window types. `-win root` means draw on the root desktop window. `-win fullscreen` is fullscreen mode. `-win ontop` creates a window that always stays above other windows. `-win shaded` creates a window that is initially shaded (just the title-bar visible, if the window-manager supports this). `-win sticky` causes the window to appear on all desktops, giving the suggestion that its stuck to the screen. However, the window created with `-win sticky` still obeys stacking order, and doesn`t stay on top of other windows, breaking the illusion of being stuck to the glass. `-win stickontop` creates a fully sticky window that appears on all desktops and stays above other windows.

The other use of `-win` is to specify a window to embed/reparent into. The window id can be specified either in decimal, or in hex like `-win 0x30001` 


Media Types
-----------

DVDs can be played using the urls `dvd://0` to use dvdnav menu screen (as with a standalone DVD player), or `dvd://1`, `dvd://2`, etc to play a particular track on disk. 

Data from stdin can be read with a url of the form `stdin://`. 


Bookmarks
---------

By default cxine 'bookmarks' the position in a video if exit is requested, and restarts from that position if the media is played again. This may not work for all media types, but it should for .mp4 videos and the like.

Bookmark playback can be disabled with `-startms 0` option, which tells cxine to start 0 milliseconds into the media (i.e. at the beginning).


Escape to exit, or not
----------------------

As a Vim user my pet peeve with mplayer is having an mplayer window popup after a download completes, while I'm in the middle of programming, and just as I hit 'escape' to switch from insert-mode to command-mode in vim. The keystroke winds up going to mplayer causing it to shutdown without playing the media. Thus cxine doesn't honor the escape key by default, but will if supplied the `-esc` option at startup. 


Control Pipes
-------------

By default cxine creates a pipe in `~/.cxine/cxine.pipe` and is always ready to read 'slave mode' commands from there or from stdin (unlike mplayer that only does that when the `-slave` option is supplied). The path to this pipe can be changed with the `-input` option to point to a different pipe. If the pipe does not exist, cxine will create it, otherwise it will just attach ot it in reading mode. The `-input` option can take its argument raw, as `-input <path to pipe>` or in `MPlayer compatible format` which is `-input file:<path to pipe>`.

The `-persist` option is normally needed in conjunction with the `-input` option. `-persist` tells cxine to stay running even if it has nothing to play (otherwise it will exit). The `loadfile` slave-mode command can then be used to load up media to be played.

The mplayer-compatible `-slave` option is a combination of `-persist` and `-startms 0`, causing CXine to stay running and to start all playback from the beginning of the media.

CXine also supports a `now playing` pipe specified with `-nowplay <path>`. If the `-now play` option is provided, then CXine will write information about the currently playing media to the pipe. If the pipe does not exist, cxine will create it.


Add URL to Playlist of an Existing CXine
---------------------------------------

You can add items to the playlist of a running CXine (which is perhaps running in `-persist` mode) with the `-add` and `-queue` options. Start up another cxine like so:

```
cxine -add <url>
```

This will pass the url to a running cxine using the default cxine control pipe. The `-queue` option works the same way, except if a cxine isn't already running then it starts one up.


X11 Properties
--------------

CXine sets X11 properties on its main window with the names 'CXINE:Filename', 'CXINE:Artist', 'CXINE:Title', 'CXINE:Album', 'CXINE:Track', 'CXINE:Year' and 'CXINE:Genre' that hold information about the currently playing media. It also sets the properties 'CXINE:WIN' and 'CXINE:PID' on the root window so that applications can find it's process and window.

CXine also outputs its window id on stdout at startup, in a message of the form `win_id: 0x2400001`. This is intended to allow a player application to reparent buttons into the cxine window itself.


Audio Post Plugins
------------------

CXine can add postprocessing plugins to an audio stream. This is done with the '-ap' option. Available audio plugins are:

```
        goom            - Psychadelic audio visualization.
        oscope          - Oscilloscope audio visualization.
        fftscope        - FFT Scope audio visualization.
        fftgraph        - FFT Graph audio visualization. 
        tdaudioanalyzer - Time Domain Audio Analyzer Visualisation
        volnorm         - Normalize volume
        noise           - Adds noise
```


Audio Compression
-----------------

the -ac switch is used to set the audio compression level. This feature in used on media where sound effects (e.g. gunshots, car chase noises) are much louder than the actor's voices. The `-ac` switch takes an argument which is a percentage amount to boost quiet sounds by. Below 100% this does nothing, but the argument `-ac 150` will boost quiet sounds to a maximum of 150% their default value, while boosting louder sounds less or not at all.


Image Slideshows and Images for Audio Tracks
--------------------------------------------

The `-image-time` or `-imagems` options allow setting a number of milliseconds that cxine will 'pause' on an image before loading the next media item. This can be used to either create slideshows of images, or to supply an image to be displayed during the playing of audio tracks by setting the number of milliseconds to a low value. e.g.

```
cxine -image-time 2 /home/images/img1.jpg /home/mp3/track1.mp3 /home/images/img2.png /home/mp3/track2.mp3
```


On Screen Displays
------------------

CXine supports on-screen-displays at the top and bottom of the screen. These are defined using the `-osd` switch like so:

cxine -osd `top,%t now playing: %T` -osd `bottom,%tP%% %ts/%tl`

The argument of the -osd option is a pair of comma-seperated strings. The first is `top` or `bottom` indicating which area of the screen the OSD should be displayed in. The second is the string to display, with the following printf-style `%` substitutions supported:

```
%%     output '%'
%B      output current stream bitrate
%w      output current stream video width
%h      output current stream video height
%o      output current stream AV offset
%A      output artist of current track
%T      output title of current track
%v      output audio volume (0-100)
%av     output audio volume (0-100)
%ac     output audio file FourCC
%ab     output audio bitrate
%as     output audio samplerate
%aw     output audio width (compression level)
%ma     output artist for current track
%mA     output album for current track
%mt     output title of current track
%mT     output title of current track
%mY     output year for current track
%mG     output genre for current track
%mc     output DVD chapter number
%mC     output number of chapters on DVD
%ts     output number of seconds into track
%tl     output length of current track in seconds
%tP     output percent into current track
%tt     output current time in form HH:MM
%tT     output current time in form HH:MM:SS
%td     output current date in form YY/mm/dd
%tD     output current date in form YYYY/mm/dd
%tN     output current date and time in form YYYY/mm/dd HH:MM:SS
```

Onscreen displays only work if there`s a video stream for them to mix into. Thus, to have an OSD when playing audio files you should either use one of the audio post-processing visualizations, or else supply cxine with a .jpeg or .png image as the first `track` to play, and use the `-image-time` or `-imagems` options to cause the next track to start playing after the image is displayed. The image will persist and be the `video` stream for the OSD to mix into.


Keybindings
-----------

CXine supports the following keys

```
<escape>        exit app (requires -esc command-line option)
<spacebar>      pause playback
<pause>         pause playback
<home>          seek to start of playback
<end>           seek to near end of playback
<enter>         next item in playlist
<left arrow>    seek back 10 seconds
                shift: previous item in playlist
                ctrl: step back (not frame accurate like ctrl-right)
<right arrow>   seek forward 10 seconds
                shift: next item in playlist
                ctrl: single-step 1-frame forwards
<page up>       forward dvd chapter 
<page down>     back dvd chapter 
+               increase volume
-               decrease volume
m               mute
o               toggle online display
f               toggle 'fast' playback (4*speed, no sound)
s               toggle 'slow' playback (1/4 speed, no sound)
<tab>           toggle between 'raised' and 'lowered' window modes
                ctrl: toggle 'shaded' window mode (if supported by window-manager)
<delete>        reset window to 'normal' mode. (turns off 'above', 'below' and 'shaded' modes)
.               reset window to 'normal' mode. (turns off 'above', 'below' and 'shaded' modes)
<               prev item in playlist
>               next item in playlist
1,2,3...        seek to n*10 percent (so 5 seeks to 50% of stream)

The following keys on 'internet' or 'media' keyboards are supported
<play>
<stop>
<pause playback>
<next>
<previous>
<volume up>     with 'shift' causes a larger increase
<volume down>   with 'shift' casues a larger decrease
<volume mute>

```


Keygrabs
--------

CXine can grab keys for its exclusive use, meaning that that those keystrokes will be sent to it regardless of what window currently has input focus. Keygrabs are supplied to the program in a comma-seperated list after the `-keygrab` option. Recognized key names are either alphanumeric characters and punctuation, or the following names:

```
up, down, left, right       arrow keys
pgup, pgdn, home, end       page-up, page-down, home and end keys
pgup, pgdn, home, end       page-up, page-down, home and end keys
ins, del                    insert and delete keys
vup, vdown, mute            volume up, down and mute keys found on 'internet' keyboards
stop, play, next, prev      playback keys found on 'internet' keyboards
vpause                      media pause key found on 'internet' keyboards
```

CXine also supports the following 'group' names that grab groups of keys:
```
arrow                       left right up down
volume                      vup, vdown, mute
page                        pgup, pgdn
nav                         left, right, up, down, pgup, pgdn, home, end
media                       vup, vdown, mute, stop, play, prev, next, vpause
keypad                      up, down, left, right pgup, pgdn, home, end, +, -
```

All key and group names can have a modifier prepended. Available modifiers are `shift-`, `cntrl-` and `alt-`. If a key-modifier pair isn`t bound to an action, then cxine will treat the key as though it had no modifier. Thus `alt-o` can be bound to turn OSD display on-and-off without depriving other programs of use of the `o` key.

Commit message:

Fix for 'futex' hang up due to two threads trying to use the same X11 connection. Better semantics for volume/audio-compression keypresses.

README.md, after:

CXine - A mostly mplayer compatible libxine media player
--------------------------------------------------------

CXine is a basic, keyboard-driven, X11, lib-xine based media player that is intended to be used as a keyboard-driven standalone app, or embedded in a frontend. It supports a subset of the mplayer 'slave mode' command protocol. It supports user-configurable on screen displays; embedding into another window; sticky, shaded and stayontop windows; drawing on the root window; fullscreen playback, keygrabs and 'bookmarking' (remembering position in a media item). Its only dependancies are libxine, libX11, libc and libm.

At current CXine is completely keyboard-driven, with no mouse control at all. This may change in future.

Author
------
cxine is (C) 2018 Colum Paget. It is released under the GPLv3 so you may do anything with them that the GPL allows.

Email: colums.projects@gmail.com


Usage
-----
```
	cxine [options] [url]
```

Options
-------

```
  -add <url>             Add <url> to the playlist of an existing cxine, then exit.
  -queue <url>           If no cxine is currently running, then start up and play <url>, else add it to the playlist of an existing cxine.
  -esc                   Allow the 'escape' key to exit the app.
  -win     <win id>      'root', 'fullscreen', 'sticky', 'shaded', 'ontop', 'stickontop' or id of window to reparent into.
  -into    <win id>      Window to reparent into (xterm style option).
  -wid     <win id>      Window to reparent into (mplayer style option).
  -parent  <win id>      Window to reparent into (maximum clarity style).
  -s <wid>x<high>        Window size. Default is 480x360.
  -ao <ao name>          Audio output plugin name (default = alsa).
  -vo <vo name>          Video output plugin name (default = Xv).
  -identify              Output machine-readable track information on stdout (mplayer feature).
  -root                  Draw on root window (equivalent to -win root).
  -rootwin               Draw on root window (mplayer style option).
  -fs                    Play fullscreen (mplayer style option equivalent to '-win fullscreen').
  -use-stdin             Read media stream from stdin
  -pause                 Start paused.
  -mute                  Start muted.
  -shuffle               Shuffle playlist.
  -loop <n>              Repeat playback <n> times.
  -stop_xscreensaver     Disable screensaver during playing, re-enable it on exit.
  -persist               Don't exit when nothing left to do, wait for commands on stdin.
  -slave                 Mplayer compatible flag, equivalent to '-persist -startms 0'.
  -input <path>          Path to pipe to read commands from (by default cxine creates a pipe in '~/.cxine/cxine.pipe'). This accepts mplayer compatible form '-input file:<path>'.
  -nowplay <path>        Path to pipe to write 'now playing' info to (cxine will create this pipe if it doesn't already exist).
  -startms <millisecs>   Start playing at <millisecs>'.
  -image-time <ms>       Number of milliseconds to pause on an image for, until starting to play/display the next track.
  -imagems <ms>          Number of milliseconds to pause on an image for, until starting to play/display the next track.
  -osd-show              Show On Screen Display.
  -osd-hide              Hide On Screen Display'.
  -osd <format>          Define format of OSD bar.
  -slow                  Play halfspeed.
  -vslow                 Play quarterspeed.
  -loud                  Play with raised volume.
  -vloud                 Play with maximum volume.
  -keygrab               Register keygrabs, a comma-separated list of keys. See keygrabs below.
  -prio <value>          Set process priority in range 0-39 (requires superuser capabilities).
  -nice <value>          Set process priority with 'nice' semantics (requires superuser capabilities).
  -ac <value>            Set audio compression. This boosts quiet sounds, lessening the volume range. value is a percent > 100 to multiply quiet sounds by.
  -ap <plugins>          Comma separated list of audio post processing plugins.
  -aplug <plugins>       Comma separated list of audio post processing plugins.
  -?                     Show this help.
  -help                  Show this help.
  --help                 Show this help.
  --help keys            Show keybindings.
  --help keygrabs        Show help for keygrab config.
  --help osd             Show help for OSD config.
  --help slave           Show help for MPlayer-compatible slave mode.
```


Window Types
------------

The `-win` command supports a number of window types. `-win root` means draw on the root desktop window. `-win fullscreen` is fullscreen mode. `-win ontop` creates a window that always stays above other windows. `-win shaded` creates a window that is initially shaded (just the title-bar visible, if the window-manager supports this). `-win sticky` causes the window to appear on all desktops, giving the suggestion that its stuck to the screen. However, the window created with `-win sticky` still obeys stacking order, and doesn`t stay on top of other windows, breaking the illusion of being stuck to the glass. `-win stickontop` creates a fully sticky window that appears on all desktops and stays above other windows.

The other use of `-win` is to specify a window to embed/reparent into. The window id can be specified either in decimal, or in hex like `-win 0x30001` 


Media Types
-----------

DVDs can be played using the urls `dvd://0` to use dvdnav menu screen (as with a standalone DVD player), or `dvd://1`, `dvd://2`, etc to play a particular track on disk. 

Data from stdin can be read with a url of the form `stdin://`. 


Bookmarks
---------

By default cxine 'bookmarks' the position in a video if exit is requested, and restarts from that position if the media is played again. This may not work for all media types, but it should for .mp4 videos and the like.

Bookmark playback can be disabled with `-startms 0` option, which tells cxine to start 0 milliseconds into the media (i.e. at the beginning).


Escape to exit, or not
----------------------

As a Vim user my pet peeve with mplayer is having an mplayer window popup after a download completes, while I'm in the middle of programming, and just as I hit 'escape' to switch from insert-mode to command-mode in vim. The keystroke winds up going to mplayer causing it to shutdown without playing the media. Thus cxine doesn't honor the escape key by default, but will if supplied the `-esc` option at startup. 


Control Pipes
-------------

By default cxine creates a pipe in `~/.cxine/cxine.pipe` and is always ready to read 'slave mode' commands from there or from stdin (unlike mplayer that only does that when the `-slave` option is supplied). The path to this pipe can be changed with the `-input` option to point to a different pipe. If the pipe does not exist, cxine will create it, otherwise it will just attach ot it in reading mode. The `-input` option can take its argument raw, as `-input <path to pipe>` or in `MPlayer compatible format` which is `-input file:<path to pipe>`.

The `-persist` option is normally needed in conjunction with the `-input` option. `-persist` tells cxine to stay running even if it has nothing to play (otherwise it will exit). The `loadfile` slave-mode command can then be used to load up media to be played.

The mplayer-compatible `-slave` option is a combination of `-persist` and `-startms 0`, causing CXine to stay running and to start all playback from the beginning of the media.

CXine also supports a `now playing` pipe specified with `-nowplay <path>`. If the `-now play` option is provided, then CXine will write information about the currently playing media to the pipe. If the pipe does not exist, cxine will create it.


Add URL to Playlist of an Existing CXine
---------------------------------------

You can add items to the playlist of a running CXine (which is perhaps running in `-persist` mode) with the `-add` and `-queue` options. Start up another cxine like so:

```
cxine -add <url>
```

This will pass the url to a running cxine using the default cxine control pipe. The `-queue` option works the same way, except if a cxine isn't already running then it starts one up.


X11 Properties
--------------

CXine sets X11 properties on its main window with the names 'CXINE:Filename', 'CXINE:Artist', 'CXINE:Title', 'CXINE:Album', 'CXINE:Track', 'CXINE:Year' and 'CXINE:Genre' that hold information about the currently playing media. It also sets the properties 'CXINE:WIN' and 'CXINE:PID' on the root window so that applications can find it's process and window.

CXine also outputs its window id on stdout at startup, in a message of the form `win_id: 0x2400001`. This is intended to allow a player application to reparent buttons into the cxine window itself.


Audio Post Plugins
------------------

CXine can add postprocessing plugins to an audio stream. This is done with the '-ap' option. Available audio plugins are:

```
        goom            - Psychadelic audio visualization.
        oscope          - Oscilloscope audio visualization.
        fftscope        - FFT Scope audio visualization.
        fftgraph        - FFT Graph audio visualization. 
        tdaudioanalyzer - Time Domain Audio Analyzer Visualisation
        volnorm         - Normalize volume
        noise           - Adds noise
```


Audio Compression
-----------------

the -ac switch is used to set the audio compression level. This feature in used on media where sound effects (e.g. gunshots, car chase noises) are much louder than the actor's voices. The `-ac` switch takes an argument which is a percentage amount to boost quiet sounds by. Below 100% this does nothing, but the argument `-ac 150` will boost quiet sounds to a maximum of 150% their default value, while boosting louder sounds less or not at all.


Image Slideshows and Images for Audio Tracks
--------------------------------------------

The `-image-time` or `-imagems` options allow setting a number of milliseconds that cxine will 'pause' on an image before loading the next media item. This can be used to either create slideshows of images, or to supply an image to be displayed during the playing of audio tracks by setting the number of milliseconds to a low value. e.g.

```
cxine -image-time 2 /home/images/img1.jpg /home/mp3/track1.mp3 /home/images/img2.png /home/mp3/track2.mp3
```


On Screen Displays
------------------

CXine supports on-screen-displays at the top and bottom of the screen. These are defined using the `-osd` switch like so:

cxine -osd `top,%t now playing: %T` -osd `bottom,%tP%% %ts/%tl`

The argument of the -osd option is a pair of comma-seperated strings. The first is `top` or `bottom` indicating which area of the screen the OSD should be displayed in. The second is the string to display, with the following printf-style `%` substitutions supported:

```
%%     output '%'
%B      output current stream bitrate
%w      output current stream video width
%h      output current stream video height
%o      output current stream AV offset
%A      output artist of current track
%T      output title of current track
%v      output audio volume (0-100)
%av     output audio volume (0-100)
%ac     output audio file FourCC
%ab     output audio bitrate
%as     output audio samplerate
%aw     output audio width (compression level)
%ma     output artist for current track
%mA     output album for current track
%mt     output title of current track
%mT     output title of current track
%mY     output year for current track
%mG     output genre for current track
%mc     output DVD chapter number
%mC     output number of chapters on DVD
%ts     output number of seconds into track
%tl     output length of current track in seconds
%tP     output percent into current track
%tt     output current time in form HH:MM
%tT     output current time in form HH:MM:SS
%td     output current date in form YY/mm/dd
%tD     output current date in form YYYY/mm/dd
%tN     output current date and time in form YYYY/mm/dd HH:MM:SS
```

Onscreen displays only work if there`s a video stream for them to mix into. Thus, to have an OSD when playing audio files you should either use one of the audio post-processing visualizations, or else supply cxine with a .jpeg or .png image as the first `track` to play, and use the `-image-time` or `-imagems` options to cause the next track to start playing after the image is displayed. The image will persist and be the `video` stream for the OSD to mix into.


Keybindings
-----------

CXine supports the following keys

```
<escape>        exit app (requires -esc command-line option)
<spacebar>      pause playback
<pause>         pause playback
<home>          seek to start of playback
<end>           seek to near end of playback
<enter>         next item in playlist
<left arrow>    seek back 10 seconds
                shift: previous item in playlist
                ctrl: step back (not frame accurate like ctrl-right)
<right arrow>   seek forward 10 seconds
                shift: next item in playlist
                ctrl: single-step 1-frame forwards
<page up>       forward dvd chapter 
<page down>     back dvd chapter 
+ (or '=')      increase volume
								shift: increase audio compression
- (or '_')      decrease volume
								shift: decrease audio compression
m               mute
o               toggle online display
f               toggle 'fast' playback (4*speed, no sound)
s               toggle 'slow' playback (1/4 speed, no sound)
<tab>           toggle between 'raised' and 'lowered' window modes
                ctrl: toggle 'shaded' window mode (if supported by window-manager)
<delete>        reset window to 'normal' mode. (turns off 'above', 'below' and 'shaded' modes)
.               reset window to 'normal' mode. (turns off 'above', 'below' and 'shaded' modes)
<               prev item in playlist
>               next item in playlist
1,2,3...        seek to n*10 percent (so 5 seeks to 50% of stream)


The '+' and '-' keys represent a departure from mplayer. On the keypad they work as expected, with the 'shift' modifier alowing change of audio compression. However, on UK keyboards you have to press shift to get '+' on the non-keypad part of the keyboard. This creates confusion. Hence on the normal keyboard '=' and '-' change volume up and down, and their shifted versions '_' and '+' alter audio compression.

The following keys on 'internet' or 'media' keyboards are supported
<play>
<stop>
<pause playback>
<next>
<previous>
<volume up>     with 'shift' causes a larger increase
<volume down>   with 'shift' casues a larger decrease
<volume mute>

```


Keygrabs
--------

CXine can grab keys for its exclusive use, meaning that that those keystrokes will be sent to it regardless of what window currently has input focus. Keygrabs are supplied to the program in a comma-seperated list after the `-keygrab` option. Recognized key names are either alphanumeric characters and punctuation, or the following names:

```
up, down, left, right       arrow keys
pgup, pgdn, home, end       page-up, page-down, home and end keys
pgup, pgdn, home, end       page-up, page-down, home and end keys
ins, del                    insert and delete keys
vup, vdown, mute            volume up, down and mute keys found on 'internet' keyboards
stop, play, next, prev      playback keys found on 'internet' keyboards
vpause                      media pause key found on 'internet' keyboards
```

CXine also supports the following 'group' names that grab groups of keys:
```
arrow                       left right up down
volume                      vup, vdown, mute
page                        pgup, pgdn
nav                         left, right, up, down, pgup, pgdn, home, end
media                       vup, vdown, mute, stop, play, prev, next, vpause
keypad                      up, down, left, right pgup, pgdn, home, end, +, -
```

All key and group names can have a modifier prepended. Available modifiers are `shift-`, `cntrl-` and `alt-`. If a key-modifier pair isn`t bound to an action, then cxine will treat the key as though it had no modifier. Thus `alt-o` can be bound to turn OSD display on-and-off without depriving other programs of use of the `o` key.
